When my wife and I visit different branches on various speaking assignments, what encourages
us the most is seeing how our brothers and sisters' worldwide remain loyal to Jehovah.
Brother Mark Duman and his wife went on such a trip recently and came back with many
fine experiences.
You probably remember Brother Numea as the co-anchor in the December 2014 monthly program.
As a headquarters representative, Brother Numea had the privilege of visiting three branches
in Africa.
Recently, Sister Numea and I had the privilege of joining Brother and Sister Maray in visiting
three countries in East Africa.
Our first stop was Tanzania, where we visited the remote translation office which is located
in Dar Salam.
There are 41 devoted brothers and sisters working at this office assisting with Swahili
translation.
We also had the opportunity to join the brothers in the ministry and to witness firsthand their
zeal for the truth.
Many recall Clinton, Wendy, Winkleman.
They served at Patterson before being assigned to Tanzania as Besselites in Foreign Service.
Here you'll notice Wendy is conducting a Bible study with a woman on the right, but woman
on the left is also her Bible student that came early and is waiting her turn.
The people in Tanzania are hungry for the truth.
The metropolitan witnessing is now being done in Dar Salam.
Since it began nine months ago, over 150,000 pieces of literature have been taken.
Hundreds of requests for Bible studies have been made and several people have begun attending
meetings and are making spiritual progress.
In the village areas of Tanzania, people are also receiving a witness, but from their
mobile devices, they are able to get in contact with their students, direct them to the website,
and show them videos.
During our visit, the brothers arranged for a special meeting connecting 19 other locations
and they had a combined attendance of over 18,500.
This is Tanzania's broadcasting department.
They utilized a simple router to connect all 18,000 friends, and if that for some reason
didn't connect, they had a B plan.
Each location had its own designated cell phone, and the brothers on standby ready to connect
each one.
Thanks to these young brothers, we had smooth connections the entire program.
On to our next stop, Kenya.
The patty and I, it was like coming home.
30 years later, some things still haven't changed, patty's still making great coffee.
When we arrived as missionaries, Kenya had about 3,000 publishers.
Now they have over 27,000.
Shella is one of the many young ones we met when we were in the circuit work.
Now, he is serving as a translator in the RTO.
This family adopted us when we were new missionaries and helped us learn Swahili.
The little girl on the bike is now serving at Bethel along with her husband.
We were so happy to see many of these young ones grow up into spiritual men and women.
The parents of these ones really took to heart the importance of training their children,
and we can see the good results that came from it.
The total attendance for the special program in Kenya was over 35,000, and it was streamed
to 25 locations, including Sudan.
On to our next stop, Malawi.
Branch office is located in Lillongui.
The attendance for the special meeting was 43,479 from seven different locations.
Not long ago, our Bethel family listened to a branch report from Malawi about unity
players.
They have a battery that can be charged by a solar panel or a hand crank.
Traveling overseas, gallon load new songs and videos onto a memory stick.
From there, they connect the memory stick to the unity player, which acts as a sound system
for playing the new songs.
The player also has a microphone, which helps when they are teaching the congregation.
When they want to show one of our videos with the projector, they connect the memory stick
in the projector and the unity player for sound.
This wonderful provision from Jehovah's organization has helped so many of our dear brothers
and sisters to really benefit even in remote areas.
They get to know more of their international brotherhood and the governing body.
The brothers are keen on helping as many as possible to obtain and practice the new songs.
The brothers take out their cell phones and turn on the Bluetooth setting.
They share the music via Bluetooth from one brother's phone to another brother's phone
in just a short time the whole congregation has the new music on their phones.
They just can't wait to get home and start learning and singing the new songs.
A portion of our visit was spent strengthening and encouraging translation teams.
The Marei was particularly pleased to speak with all four of the remote translation offices.
Even though the internet is limited, people are still benefiting from JW.org in Malawi.
The brothers have traveled out to Nomuera to do recordings for the Yao language.
While the RTO is under construction, the audio video department will set up a mobile studio
in the local kingdom hall.
Yao is mainly a spoken language, so the brothers download recordings or videos on a memory stick
and take it in the field service.
So the brothers play the audio publication for the householder on their own radio while
they follow along in the printed publication.
A big lesson we learned during our visit is that it's not about technology, it's not
about possessions, it's all about people.
And their willing spirit that is getting the work done.
And there is so much work yet to do in the lands we visited.
It is our prayer that the sharp sickle in the hand of Christ continue to reap the people
of Tanzania, Kenya and Malawi.